[AUDIO LOGO]

Welcome to the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure 2025 Generative AI Professional Certification. I'm so glad that you are here. Generative AI is truly a transformational technology, and this is the right time for you to upskill and reskill your workforce in order to benefit from this technology.

In the next few slides, let me walk you through the course intended audience, prerequisites, objectives, and the course structure. This course is intended for cloud developers, cloud architects, machine learning and AI engineers, or for anyone who is beginning with generative AI.

There are three prerequisites for this course. You need a basic familiarity with deep learning and machine learning concepts. You need a very basic knowledge of Python. And you need a very basic familiarity with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, some of the basic constructs like Identity Access Management and Virtual Cloud Networks.

There are four course objectives. So we want you to learn about large language models and the fundamentals of large language models. We will deep dive into OCI Generative AI Service. Then we'll build a RAG system using OCI GenAI Service plus Oracle Database 23ai with capabilities around AI vector search and using an open source orchestration framework like LangChain.

And finally, we'll see how you can build a chatbot using OCI Generative AI Agent Service. So those are the core objectives for this course. You absolutely need no background in large language models. We go from absolute basics all the way to knowing about the GenAI Service available in OCI, and then how you can build a RAG system using these different components.

So let me dive deep in each of these courses and just give you a quick outline. So first module actually focuses on large language models. And here, we explain the fundamentals. We look at LLM architectures. We look at prompt engineering, designing, and using prompts. We understand the various LLM fine tuning techniques.

And then we understand different kind of models, whether it's code models, multi-modal, and language agents. So again, if you have no background with large language models, this particular module will give you all the basics needed to understand LLMs.

The second module dives deep into OCI GenAI Service, so we will look into what the GenAI service is all about. We will look at the two foundational models available around chat and embedding. Then we look at dedicated AI clusters, which you can use for fine tuning and inference.

And then we look at how you can fine tune a base model with a custom data set, and then how you can host these models using these model endpoints for inference. And then finally, we look at OCI GenAI security architecture.

In the third module, we dive deep into RAG, how you can build a RAG system using OCI GenAI Service plus Oracle Database 23ai, the feature we have around AI vector search, and an open source orchestration framework like LangChain. So we look at how you can use LangChain with OCI GenAI. Then we understand RAG what a typical RAG workflow looks like.

Then we look at LangChain basics, what models are, prompts, memory, and chains. And then finally, we implement a RAG system with LangChain, OCI GenAI Service, and Oracle Database 23ai.

And the final module in this course dives deep into OCI GenAI Agents Service. So here, we look at fundamentals of OCI Generative AI Agent Service. We look at how you can create and use knowledge bases, how you can create and deploy agents using knowledge bases, and then how you can invoke these deployed RAG agents as a chatbot.

So the whole idea with this module is it shows you how you can leverage this particular service, GenAI Agent Service, which is kind of a no-code platform where you can build a RAG system and get a chatbot deployed.

There are four instructors for this course. Ari Kobren is a research scientist with Oracle Labs, so he covers large language models. Hemant Gahankari is an instructor, AI instructor, and he would cover some of the LangChains and how you can build a RAG system using LangChain, Oracle Database 23ai, and OCI GenAI Service. Himanshu will cover OCI GenAI Agents Service. And I am one of the instructors. And I will cover OCI GenAI Service itself.

One thing which I would highly recommend as you learn the basics of LLMs and learn more about OCI GenAI Service is to practice these in a real OCI environment. So we have these Oracle University labs. You can buy these labs using the link here. I provided the link here.

The cost is something like $29 a month. And you get access to all the labs for OCI, not just GenAI labs. But for GenAI specifically, we have these six labs available. And as you can see here, we go from all the very basics on how you can create chat models, embedding models, how you can implement RAG using Oracle Database 23ai plus GenAI Service, and then how you can deploy and use that particular chatbot.

So I highly recommend using these labs and performing hands-on activities. So that whole idea of you learn something and then you practice what you learn in a real OCI environment.

Another thing which I would recommend is as you go through the course, take the skill checks at the end of every module. The idea of the skill checks is to assess your knowledge and see if you are grasping the concepts covered in that particular module.

If you have questions anytime, you can use the form here on the left-hand side, which shows basically this Ask Your Instructor form. You fill this out. And within 24 hours, one of the instructors on Oracle University team will get back to you and answer your question.

But if that seems a little longer for you to get answers to, you can always leverage our community. And community has more than a million learners all kind of knowledgeable on OCI. And someone would pick up the thread and answer your post, your question there. And someone would answer one of the-- our instructors or a community member will answer your question.

And then finally, let me just leave you with some learning and exam tips. Just three of these for each. So first is for learning. You create a study plan and stick to the study plan. Take notes. As you watch these videos, sometimes it can get monotonous. So take notes and ask yourself lots of questions so I can try to get those clarifications.

And then like I said, as you are learning, you should also practice using Oracle University hands-on labs in a real OCI environment. And for the exam, there are three tips. Complete all skill checks in this course. Review exam prep material. So we have a lesson where we talk about how you can prepare for the exam, gives you-- give you some tips.

And then finally, we also have a practice exam, which actually mimics the actual exam with the same duration, same number of questions. So take the practice exam before taking the final certification exam.

And that's it. Good luck. Have fun!

I hope you are as excited as I am to begin this course. Let's get started.