Welcome to this lesson on OCI Generative AI security. In this lesson, we'll look at the generative AI security architecture. So security and privacy of customer workloads is an essential design tenet. It's an essential design principle for us. And the way we ensure that is, the first thing we do is the GPUs allocated for a customer's generative tasks are isolated from other GPUs.

So you see this dedicated AI cluster here, where we pool a specific set of GPUs, and run them within a dedicated RDMA network. And these GPUs are only allocated to a customer. And they're not shared across customers. So this is the first thing we do, where we give you dedicated GPUs, and a dedicated RDMA network.

Now, just taking it further, your dedicated GPU cluster handles only your models, only your base models and your fine tuned models for you as a customer, for a single customer. So you can see here, we have the dedicated AI cluster, where we are running the base model endpoint. And we are also running the custom model endpoints. They're all running, and contained within these set of GPUs. And this ensures model isolation and data isolation for customers.

And the customer data access is restricted within the customer's tenancy, so that one customer's data cannot be seen by another customer. Only a customer's application can access custom models created and hosted from within the customer's tenancy. So you can see here, we have two customers, Customer 1 and Customer 2.

Customer 1 is running a couple of custom models. And Customer 2 is running another custom model here. Each of them have their own dedicated AI clusters. And their applications can only access the models which are running in their own dedicated AI clusters. So this particular application here, for Customer 2, cannot access any of the custom models here, from Customer 1, and so on and so forth.

So this is the way we ensure that customer data is completely isolated, and the customer models are also completely isolated and contained within their own dedicated AI clusters.

Finally, the Generative AI service also leverages other OCI security services. So, for example, OCI Identity and Access Management service is leveraged for authentication and authorization. So, the example which is being shown here, you have two applications. You can decide that Application X can leverage this custom model X. And Application Y could leverage base model.

So you can decide what level of authorization they have, what level of access they have. And you can also decide authentication, who has access to these models, and what set of users can actually use these models. So that's the first service which Generative AI service leverages.

The second security service it leverages is Key Management. And Key Management is where we store all the base model keys securely. And then we also leverage the OCI Object Storage service, where we store the fine tune model weights. These are very important. And so you can see the model weights for the base model. And let's say the custom model X is stored here in these object storage buckets. These are encrypted by default. And the keys are managed by the key management service.

Basically the idea is, the OCI Generative AI service builds upon the various security services available in the OCI platform. So this was a quick lesson, where we discussed how security and privacy are essential design principles. We looked at dedicated GPU, dedicated RDMA network, and how customer data and models are isolated, and how the service leverages other secure OCI security services, like IAM and Key Management for encryption. I hope you found this lesson useful. Thanks for your time.